# Multi-Modal Forest Optimization Algorithm

Multi-Modal Forest Optimization Algorithm Matlab Code.

DOI: [10.1007/s00521-019-04113-z](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00521-019-04113-z)

URL: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00521-019-04113-z

## Abstract:
Multi-modal optimization algorithms are one of the most challenging issues in the field of optimization. Most real-world problems have more than one solution; therefore, the potential role of multi-modal optimization algorithms is rather significant. Multi-modal problems consider several global and local optima. Therefore, during the search process, most of the points should be detected by the algorithm. The forest optimization algorithm has been recently introduced as a new evolutionary algorithm with the capability of solving unimodal problems. This paper presents the multi-modal forest optimization algorithm (MMFOA), which is constructed by applying a clustering technique, based on niching methods, to the unimodal forest optimization algorithm. The MMFOA operates by dividing the population of the forest into subpopulations to locate existing local and global optima. Subpopulations are generated by the Basic Sequential Algorithmic Scheme with a radius neighborhood. As population size is self-adaptive in MMFOA, population size can be increased in functions with too many local and global optima. The proposed algorithm is evaluated by a set of multi-modal benchmark functions. The experiment results show that not only is the population size low, but also that the convergence speed is high, and that the algorithm is efficient in solving multi-modal problems.

